# Overview

This protocol describes how to power cycle the 6545 qTOF mass spectrometer.  It is useful when there is a communication error between the MassHunter computer and the MS instrument, or when there are cryptic error messages being generated by the MS.

# Protocol
1. Close MassHunter.
2. Click the "Remove MassHunter Processes" icon on the desktop.
3. Click the Shutdown Smart Card logo.
4. Click the "shutdown" button in the popup window.
5. Read the scary dialog box that comes up and heed its instructions.
6. Click "OK".
7. After the PC tells you that the instrument *must* be power cycled, it is safe to do so:
8. Turn off the power switch at the lower left corner of the front of the instrument **FOR NO MORE THAN 5 SECONDS**.
9. After **NO MORE THAN 5 SECONDS**, turn the instrument back on.
10. After you have turned the instrument back on, make sure the rough pump (the big metal thing on the floor) is running.
11. The LED light on the front right of the MS will turn from blinking orange to solid red after a few minutes.  When the LED light is red, click "Q-TOF diagnostic Tool" logo on the desktop.
12. When that tool opens, click the "Connection" menu and choose "Connect".  Accept the default IP address.
13. You might have to wait awhile for the MS to connect.
14. Once the connects to the instrument, click "Recover Fault"
15. Repeat step 13.  The "Connection" logo on the bottom right of the window should turn green.
16. If so, you're in business.  Close the "Q-TOF diagnostic Tool" software.
17. Start masshunter and enjoy your life as a mass spectrometrist!

CF/cf